---
title: 'January Recap'
date: '2025-02-02'
slug: 'january-recap'
image: '/images/blogs/2025/0202/main.webp'
tags: ['Journal', 'Lifestyle']
---

## Looking Back on January

Well January is officially over. It was a tough month for me because a lot has
changed since last year, and I’m still trying to wrap my head around everything.
Here’s a little recap of how my January went.

### Blogging

So I created this blog site in the first week of January and managed to post
three blogs here. Apart from that I also started writing on my medium again and
I posted 3 articles there as well. Most of what I write is just me dumping my
notes and thoughts about the new tech stuff I’m learning at work. It’s not
groundbreaking, but it’s a good way for me to process things and maybe help
someone else along the way.

### Hello, Bluesky

I joined Bluesky this month. My X timeline was a tech stuff mixed with combat
sports and football, and it was just too chaotic. Bluesky feels a bit fresher,
and I’m thinking it might become my go to for professional stuff. I’ve been
posting here and there, following some tech influencers. We’ll see how it goes!

### I Deployed My Project

I deployed my project for the first time since graduated bootcamp. I also hadn't
posted anything on linkedIn for a long time and I posted about my project.

### New Job, New Challenges

January also marked the start of a new job for me. I thought the first month
would be chill, just getting familiar with the codebase and settling in. But I
was wrong.

The skill gap between me and the other developers feels massive. Everyone seems
to finish their tasks super fast and logs off by 6 PM. Meanwhile, I’m working
until 10 PM, trying to keep up. I didn’t want anyone to think I wasn’t good
enough, so I log off early like everyone else (like 6 PM) and just keep working
late without telling anyone.

This is my first time working on an in-house product, and the code reviews are
intense. My PRs take 2-3 days to get merged, which is a big change from my last
job where code reviews were basically nonexistent. I’ve also been doing code
reviews myself, and I’ve realized how important they are. Reading through other
people’s code line by line has been a huge learning experience. When I don’t
understand something, I either Google it or ask the developer directly. It’s
been super humbling, but I can already feel myself growing.

### React Tokyo Meetup

I went to React Tokyo meetup. The creator of the Jotai library was there giving
a talk, which was pretty inspiring. I also got to chat with a Chilean guy who’s
been a software engineer for over 10 years. He was super chill and gave me some
great advice on how to level up my skills.

He recommended a bunch of books, YouTube channels, and other resources to help
me learn more about programming. It was one of those conversations that just
leaves you feeling motivated. Meeting people like him reminded me why I love the
tech community. Everyone’s so willing to share knowledge and help each other
grow.

### Adjusting to a New Routine

For the past year and a half, I’ve been commuting early, hitting the boxing gym
near my old office, and then heading to work. But with the new job, things are
different.

Now, I only go into the office once a week and the rest is fully remote. I start
working around 8 AM, and the first thing I do is code reviews. It uses my brain
a lot, so I like to get it out of the way before diving into actual development
work. After my daily meeting, I head to a boxing gym near my place. I work out,
eat lunch, and then get back to work around 1:30 PM. It depends on the meeting
schedule but I usually take 2 hours break to do my own things.

I leave work again around 5:30 and go to grocery and cook and eat. Then it’s
back to work until I feel like I’ve done enough for the day. It’s been an
adjustment, but I’m starting to get the hang of it.

The biggest change is no more commuting. I’ve gained back about two hours a day,
which is amazing. My last job was fully remote too, but I still commuted every
day just to go to the gym and force myself to be productive. For some reason,
though, I haven’t felt lazy working from home this month. In fact, I feel more
productive at home than in the office. As long as I can keep my discipline, I
think working from home is the way to go. It gives me more time to focus on my
own stuff.

### Final Thoughts

January was a month of big changes, new job, new routine, and new challenges.
I’m hoping February will be the month where I start feeling more settled into my
new role. I also want to keep up with my studying and blogging
